README.md, before:

# GNOME Shell extension - Bing Wallpaper

A lightweight extension that brings some color to your desktop by syncing your desktop and lockscreen wallpapers with today's Microsoft Bing image of the day (the image you see when you visit Bing.com). The intention of this extension is to just do what it needs to do and stay out of your way, with a few optional features to improve quality-of-life.

![Screenshot](/screenshot/notification.png)

This extension is based extensively on the NASA APOD extension by [Elinvention](https://github.com/Elinvention)
and inspired by Bing Desktop WallpaperChanger by [Utkarsh Gupta](https://github.com/UtkarshGpta). As featured on [OMG! Ubuntu](https://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2017/07/bing-wallpaper-changer-gnome-extension). Lockscreen blur code is based on [Pratap-Kumar's extension.](https://github.com/PRATAP-KUMAR/Control_Blur_Effect_On_Lock_Screen)

Also, check out my related [Google Earth View wallpaper extension](https://github.com/neffo/earth-view-wallpaper-gnome-extension) and the partially-derived [Bing Desktop Wallpaper for Cinnamon](https://github.com/Starcross/bing-wallpaper-cinnamon) by Starcross.

[![Get it on GNOME extensions](/screenshot/get_it_on_gnome_extensions.png)](https://extensions.gnome.org/extension/1262/bing-wallpaper-changer/) [![<3 Sponsor this project on GitHub <3](/screenshot/sponsor.png)](https://github.com/sponsors/neffo)

## Features

* Fetches the Bing [Image of the Day](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/bing/bing-wallpaper) and sets as both lock screen and desktop wallpaper
* Only attempts to download wallpapers when they have been updated - doesn't poll continuously
* Optionally delete old images after a week, or keep them forever
* Optionally force a specific region (i.e. what Bing calls a "market", some Wallpapers may relate to local holidays or locations)
* Language support: English (en), German (de), Dutch (nl), Italian (it), Polish (pl), Chinese (zh_CN), French (fr_FR), Portuguese (pt, pt_BR), Russian (ru_RU), Spanish (es), Korean (ko, ko_KR, ko_KP), Indonesian (id), Catalan (ca), Norwegian Bokmål (nb) & Nynorsk (ni), Swedish (sv), Arabic (ar), Hungarian (hu) and Japanese (ja) - a HUGE thanks to the translators
* Image preview in menus & ability to manually set wallpapers individually or copy image to clipboard
* A selection of different theme-aware indicator (tray) icons to choose (or hide it completely)
* Override the lockscreen blur
* NEW: shuffle/randomise wallpapers at adjustable intervals (including from your stored Bing images)
* NEW: image gallery to view, select and manage stored images #115

## TODO

* add more languages (#14) - [please help if you can](https://github.com/neffo/bing-wallpaper-gnome-extension/issues/14)
* add user features requests - [lots have already been implemented](https://github.com/neffo/bing-wallpaper-gnome-extension/issues?q=is%3Aissue+label%3Aenhancement+is%3Aclosed)

## Known Issues

* In China, users are limited to 'Chinese – China', 'English - International' markets (this is the way Bing handles the Chinese market/locale, not an extension 'bug' - sorry!)
* Bing may detect your location incorrectly (and force a locale as above) - if you see this, please let me know what Bing.com itself does

## Requirements

GNOME 3.28+ (Ubuntu Gnome 18.04+, Fedora 23+, older versions of the extension work with 3.18+, but are no longer supported). Blur control requires GNOME 3.36+, and may be unreliable on 3.36.3 or below. GNOME 40+ is still beta quality.

## Install

[Install from extensions.gnome.org](https://extensions.gnome.org/extension/1262/bing-wallpaper-changer/)

or install directly to your GNOME extensions directory (useful if you want to hack on it)

```
git clone https://github.com/neffo/bing-wallpaper-gnome-extension.git $HOME/.local/share/gnome-shell/extensions/BingWallpaper@ineffable-gmail.com
```

or create a zip file by doing this

```
git clone https://github.com/neffo/bing-wallpaper-gnome-extension.git
cd bing-wallpaper-gnome-extension
sh buildzip.sh
```

You can then install this file using the GNOME Tweak Tool. Please note to install an extension correctly the zip must have the metadata.json file in the base directory (not in a sub-directory), so you can't use the Github zip file to do this.

## Enable debug logging

If you run into problems, you can enable debugging using dconf-editor with this command:
```
GSETTINGS_SCHEMA_DIR=$HOME/.local/share/gnome-shell/extensions/BingWallpaper@ineffable-gmail.com/schemas dconf-editor /org/gnome/shell/extensions/bingwallpaper/
```

Please include logs from your journal when submitting bug notices (make sure nothing sensitive is included in the text!).

## Screenshots

Image gallery:
![Settings](/screenshot/settings5.png)

Preferences:
![Settings](/screenshot/settings.png)![Settings](/screenshot/settings2.png)
![Settings](/screenshot/settings3.png)![Settings](/screenshot/settings4.png)


Examples of adjustable blur on the lockscreen:
(from left to right: no blur/no dimming, slight blur/default dimming, default blur/default dimming)
![Blur example](/screenshot/blurexample.jpg)

## Toss a coin to your coder

Do you like this extension and want to show that you appreciate the work that goes into adding new features and keeping it maintained? Please consider buying me a coffee on [GitHub Sponsors](https://github.com/sponsors/neffo) or on [Flattr](https://flattr.com/@neffo).

## Disclaimer

This extension is unofficial and not affiliated with Bing or Microsoft in any way. Images are protected by copyright, and are licensed only for use as wallpapers.

## Special Thanks

I'd like to give a special shout out to those who have [contributed code and translations](https://github.com/neffo/bing-wallpaper-gnome-extension/graphs/contributors) as well as everyone who has reported bugs or provided feedback and suggestions for improvements. Also, thanks to Microsoft for this great API and wallpaper collection.

## License

This extension is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify it under the terms of the GNU Lesser General Public License as published by the Free Software Foundation, either version 3 of the License, or (at your option) any later version.

Commit message:

Version 37 (#133)
* Updated Swedish translation (#129) #14
* fix build instructions
* remove lockscreen switch
* use arrow functions
* fix carousel, add view image button to gallery
* fix purging of old images
* fix missing declaration, carousel image sort
* fix image cleanup #134
* fix deleteImage call
* fix gtk3 gui issues
* fix hidden elements in gtk4 settings
* add info button to gallery
* improved debug logging
* dont save thumbs if delete-previous enabled
* fix notify, opening images, & broken about logo
* remove action from notification
* update german translation (#137)
* initial test import and export of JSON data #136
* fix bytearray toString() warnings
* try fix ellipsized image labels #138
* purge missing files from imported image list
* export bing.json by default
* togglable auto export of JSON data and thumbnails
* set background option in prefs fixes and don't force background zoom #38
* fix missing declaration
* clean up gtk3 settings
* unneeded method, fix icon switching and gtk4 prefs
* code clean up remove unneeded code
* switch to current image if invalid
* remove functions implemented in extensionUtils.js
* fix build script
* code clean up
* fix timeout reversions
* fix carousel thumbnail logic
* small tweaks to gallery ui

Co-authored-by: krevad <krevad@users.noreply.github.com>
Co-authored-by: JAKuhr <9527705+JAKuhr@users.noreply.github.com>

README.md, after:

# GNOME Shell extension - Bing Wallpaper

A lightweight extension that brings some color to your desktop by syncing your desktop and lockscreen wallpapers with today's Microsoft Bing image of the day (the image you see when you visit Bing.com). The intention of this extension is to just do what it needs to do and stay out of your way, with a few optional features to improve quality-of-life.

![Screenshot](/screenshot/notification.png)

This extension is based extensively on the NASA APOD extension by [Elinvention](https://github.com/Elinvention)
and inspired by Bing Desktop WallpaperChanger by [Utkarsh Gupta](https://github.com/UtkarshGpta). As featured on [OMG! Ubuntu](https://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2017/07/bing-wallpaper-changer-gnome-extension). Lockscreen blur code is based on [Pratap-Kumar's extension.](https://github.com/PRATAP-KUMAR/Control_Blur_Effect_On_Lock_Screen)

Also, check out my related [Google Earth View wallpaper extension](https://github.com/neffo/earth-view-wallpaper-gnome-extension) and the partially-derived [Bing Desktop Wallpaper for Cinnamon](https://github.com/Starcross/bing-wallpaper-cinnamon) by Starcross.

[![Get it on GNOME extensions](/screenshot/get_it_on_gnome_extensions.png)](https://extensions.gnome.org/extension/1262/bing-wallpaper-changer/) [![<3 Sponsor this project on GitHub <3](/screenshot/sponsor.png)](https://github.com/sponsors/neffo)

## Features

* Automatically sets the Bing [Image of the Day](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/bing/bing-wallpaper) as both lock screen and desktop wallpapers
* Only attempts to download wallpapers when they have been updated - doesn't poll continuously
* Shuffle/randomise wallpapers at adjustable intervals (including from your stored Bing images)
* Image gallery to view, select and curate stored images
* Optionally delete old images after a week, or you can keep (and curate) them forever
* Override the lockscreen blur
* Language support: English (en), German (de), Dutch (nl), Italian (it), Polish (pl), Chinese (zh_CN), French (fr_FR), Portuguese (pt, pt_BR), Russian (ru_RU), Spanish (es), Korean (ko, ko_KR, ko_KP), Indonesian (id), Catalan (ca), Norwegian Bokmål (nb) & Nynorsk (ni), Swedish (sv), Arabic (ar), Hungarian (hu) and Japanese (ja) - a HUGE thanks to the translators
* Image preview in menus & ability to manually set wallpapers individually or copy image to clipboard
* A selection of different theme-aware indicator (tray) icons to choose (or hide it completely)

## TODO

* add more languages (#14) - [please help if you can](https://github.com/neffo/bing-wallpaper-gnome-extension/issues/14)
* add user features requests - [lots have already been implemented](https://github.com/neffo/bing-wallpaper-gnome-extension/issues?q=is%3Aissue+label%3Aenhancement+is%3Aclosed)

## Known Issues

* In China, users are limited to 'Chinese – China', 'English - International' markets (this is the way Bing handles the Chinese market/locale, not an extension 'bug' - sorry!)
* Bing may detect your location incorrectly (and force a locale as above) - if you see this, please let me know what Bing.com itself does

## Requirements

GNOME 3.36+ or 40+ (Ubuntu 20.04 LTS or later, older versions of the extension work with 3.18+, but are no longer supported).

## Install

[Install from extensions.gnome.org](https://extensions.gnome.org/extension/1262/bing-wallpaper-changer/)

or install directly to your GNOME extensions directory (useful if you want to hack on it)

```
mkdir ~/Desktop/source
cd ~/Desktop/source
git clone https://github.com/neffo/bing-wallpaper-gnome-extension.git
cd bing-wallpaper-gnome-extension
sh install.sh
```

## Enable debug logging

Enable debug logging through the exptension preferences 'Debug options' tab or if unable to open preferences you can enable debugging using dconf-editor with this command:
```
GSETTINGS_SCHEMA_DIR=$HOME/.local/share/gnome-shell/extensions/BingWallpaper@ineffable-gmail.com/schemas dconf-editor /org/gnome/shell/extensions/bingwallpaper/
```

Please include logs from your journal when submitting bug notices (make sure nothing sensitive is included in the text!).

## Screenshots

### Image gallery

![Settings](/screenshot/settings5.png)

### Preferences

![Settings](/screenshot/settings.png)
![Settings](/screenshot/settings2.png)
![Settings](/screenshot/settings3.png)
![Settings](/screenshot/settings4.png)


### Lockscreen blur control
From left to right: 
* no blur/no dimming
* slight blur/default dimming
* default blur/default dimming
![Blur example](/screenshot/blurexample.jpg)

## Toss a coin to your coder

Do you like this extension and want to show that you appreciate the work that goes into adding new features and keeping it maintained? Please consider buying me a coffee on [GitHub Sponsors](https://github.com/sponsors/neffo) or on [Flattr](https://flattr.com/@neffo).

## Disclaimer

This extension is unofficial and not affiliated with Bing or Microsoft in any way. Images are protected by copyright, and are licensed only for use as wallpapers.

## Special Thanks

I'd like to give a special shout out to those who have [contributed code and translations](https://github.com/neffo/bing-wallpaper-gnome-extension/graphs/contributors) as well as everyone who has reported bugs or provided feedback and suggestions for improvements. Also, thanks to Microsoft for this great API and wallpaper collection.

## License

This extension is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify it under the terms of the GNU Lesser General Public License as published by the Free Software Foundation, either version 3 of the License, or (at your option) any later version.
